
So hopefully you identified the wrong answer
as "Might makes right," which is no part of the AnatomyX course,
and should feel confirmed and sustained in your learning on this issue.
But that's an example of how we'll do these things.
So most of the time, you'll get it right, and you'll think, this is good,
and I know that I'm getting it.
And sometimes you'll identify something that you need to go back and work on.
So now that we know the basic principles of the course,
we can go to the AnatomyX Clinic and have an introduction
to the five patients that you'll be working with in this course.
We developed these cases in consultation with orthopedic surgeons
at the Brigham and Women's Hospital.
The patients will not actually be real patients.
They are students and colleagues who volunteered their time
to help you learn musculoskeletal anatomy.
So our first patient is an 18-year-old quarterback
with knee pain and instability.
And here you can see him talking to Dr. Laurence
Higgins, who will be his orthopedic surgeon.
During his history, we learn that he was running toward the end zone
during a football game when a defender tackled him.
At the tackle, he fell to the ground, his knee was bent,
and his foot was straight out behind him.
The combined weight of both of them landed on the bent knee
as it hit the ground.
He sat out the rest of the game since he was in considerable pain.
And when you tried to walk or move about, his knee felt unstable.
So he was benched for the rest of the game.
And after the game was over, he was brought
to the AnatomyX Clinic complaining of pain, knee instability,
and with a very swollen right knee.
Our second patient is 27-year-old bicyclist
with a deep laceration and difficulty standing on tiptoe.
So Patient B was riding his bicycle to class
in the crowded, traffic-ridden Longwood Avenue
medical area, when a car struck him from behind.
He was knocked off his bike.
The bike was all crunched and twisted around him.
And during his fall, the bent frame of the bicycle cut the back of his leg,
just above the heel.
At the scene, the cut was bleeding.
Passersby helped him to the side of the road,
because he wasn't really able to walk.
And then one witness called an ambulance to bring him to the AnatomyX clinic.
When he arrives, the bleeding has stopped, but it's still painful.
And on physical examination, we notice that he does in fact have trouble
walking, and he cannot stand on tiptoe on both feet.
Our third patient is a 35-year-old professional tennis
player unable to serve the ball.
She was training hard for a national tennis tournament for several months,
despite increasing pain in her right shoulder.
At her coach's advice, she tried ice and over-the-counter anti-inflammatory
drugs, but it didn't seem to help.
Courageously, she continued training and qualified for the national tournament
and reached the final match.
As she was hitting her powerful serve in the second set,
however, she heard something pop in her right shoulder.
She was unable to continue and had to concede the match.
She still experiences pain and difficulty raising her right arm
as she comes to us in the Musculoskeletal AnatomyX Clinic.
Our fourth patient is 21-year-old gymnast
with arm pain, wrist drop, and curled fingers.

Patient D was competing in a gymnastics competition.
During her fast approach to the vaulting table,
she slipped just as she was about to plant her hand,
and she fell heavily against the vaulting table.
At the scene, paramedics bandaged a bleeding wound, splinted her left arm,
and transported her to the AnatomyX Clinic.
She reports severe left arm pain, and her left arm is abnormally angulated.
So it seems to be bent.
She also is concerned that the back of her hand is numb and that her fingers
are curled and she cannot extend them.
Our fifth patient is a 51-year-old novelist
with a weak thumb and tingling fingers.
She's been working long hours to meet a publisher's deadline for her latest
novel.
Over the last few weeks, she experienced worsening pain in her right wrist
and hand and uncomfortable tingling in her fingers.
The pain and tingling will sometimes awaken her at night,
and she's able to attain relief by straightening her wrist
and shaking out her hand.
She's kept on working.
She's trying to meet her deadline.
Recently, she's noticed increasing right thumb weakness when
she tries to depress the space bar on her keyboard.
So I think you'll agree that even though these aren't real patients,
the cases are very compelling.
These are people who've come to a point in their life
where something that's important to them may no longer be possible to do
and are in some discomfort or outright pain.
So hopefully you're intrigued and interested in addressing the case,
and interested in figuring out what's going wrong.
So we'll need a plan in order to enable you to do that.
So what tools do you need in order to be able to figure out the cases?
These will be the objectives for each of the AnatomyX cases.
And we hope that by the end of each case,
you'll be able to do the following.
First, understand and use correct terms for limb anatomy vocabulary.
Precise communication among members of the medical team is crucial.
You, as a physician, would be asking for imaging studies.
You'd be trying to consult with other physicians.
You'd be giving directions to other members of the medical team.
And it really matters that they know what you're talking about.
So one of the things we hope to give you with each case, a little bit at a time,
is a working anatomical vocabulary.
And you'll find that there are some surprises as we go along.
For example, this structure is not the arm.
This is the upper limb.
So the arm will actually have a slightly different meaning.
So instead of asking you to learn all the terms at the same time,
we'll give you a few with each case, and those
will be the ones that you will need to understand it.
We'll also, at the beginning, give you kind
of a burst of anatomical terms, which you
will need to understand any of the cases.
But there are only about 10 of those, and hopefully it won't be too painful.
The second thing we'll be looking at is tissues and organization.
So learn about cells and tissues, which are the building blocks of the body,
for this course.
We'll learn about how they combine to form
the structures we can actually see.
We'll learn where they are within the organizational plan,
and then we'll be able to use that organization as a map
for identifying the structures that we'll see.
So first, vocabulary.
Second, tissues and organizations.
Your third objective will be to describe and locate
the normal positions of the limb bones and bone landmarks.
This is useful because, again, going back
to the physician doing the physical examination,
we won't be able to see the bones, hopefully, in very many cases.
But we can feel them.
And again, that's palpation.
If we know where they should be and what they should feel like
and where the landmarks are, then if we have a patient who's been injured,
we'll be able to use that knowledge and our wise hands
to figure out if the bones are in the position that they should be.
So knowing where the bones should be, where the landmarks should be,
what the bones look like, will be the third step
in our strategy for approaching the anatomy basic to these cases.
The fourth step in our strategy of learning the anatomy basically
to the cases will be to explain and demonstrate
the motions normally permitted at the joints of the limbs.
And this is where we'll bring in the notion of kinetic learning.
So the ways that we learn include seeing and hearing and actually doing.
So this is one reason we think dissection
is such a powerful tool for learning anatomy at Harvard Medical School,
is that the students are actually doing it.
They're looking for things.
They're using their hands.
They're finding things.
They're using all the different ways of learning.
And so we hope that as you learn the motions normally permitted
at the joints, you'll actually do them yourself.
So for kinetic learning, we want you not only to explain them,
to say what they are, but also to be able to demonstrate them.
The motions permitted at a joint are determined
by the shape of the bones meeting at the joint.
Joints are the meeting places of bones.
So what motions are possible at that joint are determined
by how the bones fit together, and that's refined by dense connective
tissue structures, by tough pieces of connective tissue
that form ligaments and that form a capsule around the joint.
So that's what determines what a joint can actually do.
How we look at that during a physical examination is, first of all,
on passive range of motion.
So the physician will take the limb and move it around.
Are the things a joint should be able to do possible?
And equally as important, are the things a joint, that joint,
should not be able to do not possible?
In the next step in analyzing the patient case,
we'll be looking at the muscles.
So one of the objectives you will have for each case
is to describe the muscles acting at a joint and what they do,
and also demonstrate them.
All a muscle can ever do is contract.
So the particular action of the muscle is
determined by the joint and the joint surface that it crosses.
So all a muscle does is contract, and by contracting, it
pulls on a bone, which produces motion at a joint.
During the physical examination, at times
patients will be asked to do active range-of-motions tests.
So they will be asked to flex a joint or extend a joint
or do a particular thing.
If we know that the joint is intact and the patient is unable to do it,
it suggests that either the muscle is not working
or the motor nerve innervating that muscle is not working, either.
In addition to knowing the muscles and what they normally do
and how they're normally positioned, we'll
need to know the next step in our strategy, which
is learning about the innervation.
Your sixth objective for every case will be
to explain the motor and sensory innervation of the limb nerves.
So the sensory innervation is signals that
are conveyed from particular regions of the body
back to the central nervous system.
And the motor innervation will be signals
that will come out from the central nervous system to direct muscles
or glands to do a particular thing.
During the physical examination, we'll be looking for clues
that something is wrong with the wiring system.
So a loss of sensation or numbness; tingling,
which is an abnormal sensation; the inability
to perform a particular motion when you're
trying to do that-- these all indicate an injury to a particular nerve.
And by that pattern of where sensation is
lost, where there are particular motor deficits,
we can often infer exactly where the injury has occurred.
In one of our patients, it will be obvious from her arrival at the clinic
where were concerned about the injury.
In another case, we won't be able to see exactly where the nerve
injuries occurred.
But we'll have a pretty good idea from exactly this pattern
of motor and sensory deficits.
So you'll learn at least the basic wiring circuits of the limbs,
and you'll be able to actually figure out,
in our cases, from this pattern which nerve you think is injured.
The seventh step in your strategy for understanding the anatomy basic
to the cases will be learning the vessels that supply the limbs.
In unicellular organisms, getting oxygen and nutrients is very simple.
They can just diffuse them in and out across their cell membranes.
In complex animals like us, we need a basic fluid delivery system,
and that is the circulatory system.
We won't go into too many details about the pump, which
propels fluids outward and draws them inward.
But we will at least talk about the basic vessels of the limbs.
If the analogy to the neural system was wiring and electricity,
the analogy for things that go wrong in the vascular system is plumbing.
In terms of the basic principles, it really is that simple.
The circulatory system is a bunch of pipes.
And if we have bleeding in a particular place,
if we have a loss of circulation in a particular place,
you just logically work it back and figure out which pipe it is.
The final step is one that we hope you will find really interesting,
which is learning at least the basics of how to read images of the limbs.
So you've probably all had an x-ray, a radiograph.
Some of you will have had a CT or more complicated imaging,
like magnetic resonance.
But we'll teach you at least the basics of how to see the structures
that you've learned about on a plain film or a CT image.
This course is about ways of seeing anatomy.
Seeing anatomy in the ways that you've always
seen it-- looking at other people, looking at your own anatomy,
maybe wondering what made it all work.
And seeing that anatomy in new ways.
So you'll be seeing radiographs.
You'll be seeing x-rays.
You'll even be learning how to read them.
We'll be looking through a microscope to see tissues at the microscopic level.
So we'll be seeing cells and tissues that make up the body.
In the gross anatomy lab, you'll be able to see tissues and structures in a way
that very few people ever do get to see.
You'll be looking below the skin.
We'll be removing various tissues so that you
can get a better view of how things actually work.
So at the end of the AnatomyX course, what we hope is that you'll take all
these different ways of seeing and put them together with an enhanced
appreciation of your anatomy and a better understanding of how well it
normally works, and what happens when it doesn't.
